#LATCH INSTALLATION GUIDE FOR ROUNDCUBE


##PREREQUISITES
* RoundCube version 0.8.7 or later. (Tested up to 1.1.4).

* Curl extensions active in PHP (uncomment **"extension=php_curl.dll"** or"** extension=curl.so"** in Windows or Linux php.ini respectively).

* To get the **"Application ID"** and **"Secret"**, (fundamental values for integrating Latch in any application), it’s necessary to register a developer account in [Latch's website]( https://latch.elevenpaths.com"https://latch.elevenpaths.com") On the upper right side, click on **"Developer area"**.


##DOWNLOADING THE ROUNDCUBE PLUGIN
 * When the account is activated, the user will be able to create applications with Latch and access to developer documentation, including existing SDKs and plugins. The user has to access again to [Developer area](https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developerArea"https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developerArea"), and browse his applications from **"My applications"** section in the side menu.

* When creating an application, two fundamental fields are shown: **"Application ID"** and **"Secret"**, keep these for later use. There are some additional parameters to be chosen, as the application icon (that will be shown in Latch) and whether the application will support OTP  (One Time Password) or not.

* From the side menu in developers area, the user can access the **"Documentation & SDKs"** section. Inside it, there is a **"SDKs and Plugins"** menu. Links to different SDKs in different programming languages and plugins developed so far, are shown.


##INSTALLING THE PLUGIN IN ROUNDCUBE
* Once the administrator has downloaded the plugin, it has to be added to the RoundCube plugins directory. Extract the **"latchRC"** folder from the ZIP file and copy it to **ROUNDCUBE_INSTALLATION_DIR/plugin**.

* To enable the plugin, the file **ROUNDCUBE_INSTALLATION_DIR/config/main.inc.php** has to be edited, adding the string **'latchRC'** to the **$rcmail_config['plugins']** variable.

* Once the plugin is enabled, it is necessary to configure the **"Application ID"** and **"Secret"** to contact with the Latch API. To configure this, edit the file located at **ROUNDCUBE_INSTALLATION_DIR/plugins/latchRC/config.inc.php**, in the **$rcmail_config['latch_appId']** and **$rcmail_config['latch_appSecret']** configuration variables.


##UNINSTALLING THE PLUGIN IN ROUNDCUBE
* To uninstall Latch, just comment out the line added above, this way: **//$rcmail_config['plugins'] = array('latchRC')**;


##USE OF LATCH MODULE FOR THE USERS
**Latch does not affect in any case or in any way the usual operations with an account. It just allows or denies actions over it, acting as an independent extra layer of security that, once removed or without effect, will have no effect over the accounts, that will remain with its original state.**

###Pairing a user in Roundcube
The user needs the Latch application installed on the phone, and follow these steps:

* **Step 1:** Logged in your own account, go to the administration panel. **“Preferences”** will show a new section named **“Latch settings”** where the user may add the token generated by its mobile device.

* **Step 2:** From the Latch app on the phone, the user has to generate the token, pressing on **“Add a new service"** at the bottom of the application, and pressing **"Generate new code"** will take the user to a new screen where the pairing code will be displayed.

* **Step 3:** The user has to type the characters generated on the phone into the text box displayed on the web page. Click on **"Save"** button.

* **Step 4:** Now the user may lock and unlock the account, preventing any unauthorized access.

###Unpairing a user in Roundcube
* From your Roundcube account access the administration window and under the **“Preferences”** section a new section will appear called **“Latch settings”**, from which it can be. You will receive a notification indicating that the service has been unpaired.



##RESOURCES
- You can access Latch´s use and installation manuals, together with a list of all available plugins here: [https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developers/resources](https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developers/resources)

- Further information on de Latch´s API can be found here: [https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developers/doc_api](https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/developers/doc_api)

- For more information about how to use Latch and testing more free features, please refer to the user guide in Spanish and English:
	1. [English version](https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/public/documents/howToUseLatchNevele_EN.pdf)
	1. [Spanish version](https://latch.elevenpaths.com/www/public/documents/howToUseLatchNevele_ES.pdf)
